Sara/sidebar v3.02/deployment (#1322)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/deployment/connect-scm.md

---
slug: connect-scm 
title: Connect a source code manager
hide_title: true
description: Connect a GitHub or GitLab organization to manage user authentication.
tags:
  - Semgrep Cloud Platform
  - Team & Enterprise Tier
  - Deployment
---

# Connect a source code manager

:::note Your deployment journey
- You have [created a Semgrep account and organization](/deployment/create-account-and-orgs). 
:::

Linking a source code manager provides the following benefits:

- Allows the Semgrep org membership to be managed by GitHub or GitLab.
- For GitHub users:
    - Provides Semgrep access to post PR or MR comments.

>     - For GitHub Actions users: Enables you to add a Semgrep CI job to repositories in bulk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Enables you to add a Semgrep CI job to repositories in bulk using GitHub Actions.
```

Author: I'd rather keep GHA first in the sentence because this feature is exclusively available to those users. Resolving as Won't Fix.

You can only connect your Semgrep organization to the source code manager that you originally logged in with. If your organization uses both GitHub and GitLab to manage source code, log in with the source code manager that you would prefer to use to manage Semgrep org membership. You can still scan repositories from other sources.

The process to connect a source code manager depends on whether your SCM tool is cloud-hosted by the service provider, hosted on-premise, or hosted as a single-tenant by the service provider.

> :::note Review necessary permissions 

Reviewer: Does it make sense to combine this admonition with the first one on the page? Then people could combine the preliminary work they need to do all at once

Author: I'll include the pre-deployment checklist as the first bullet in **Your deployment journey**.

:::

You have successfully connected an org in Semgrep Cloud Platform with an organization in your source code management tool.

## Connect to on-premise GitHub or GitLab orgs

### Applicable plans

| GitHub | GitLab |
| ------ | ------ |
| GitHub Enterprise Server       | Any GitLab Self Managed plan        |

### Table of required scopes for PATs

Semgrep Cloud Platform requires personal access tokens (PATs) with assigned scopes. These scopes grant necessary permissions to the PAT and vary depending on the user's plan.

| GitHub Enterprise Server          | GitLab Self-Managed        |
|:---------------------------|:---------------------------|
| <ul><li>`public_repo`</li> <li>`repo:status`</li> <li>`user:email`</li> <li>`write:discussion`</li></ul> | `api` |

### Make the connection

Integrate Semgrep into these custom source code management (SCM) tools by following the steps below:

1. Sign in to [Semgrep Cloud Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. Click **Settings** > **Source Code Managers**.
![Source code manager tab](/img/source-code-manager.png#md-width)
3. Select your source code manager.

> 4. For **GitHub Enterprise Server**, follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: Do we want to consider detailing steps for the custom GHES app instead of using the old way via PAT?

Author: Chris's team owns this (F&S) - the "new way" is in beta for now. I'll resolve this and return to this section once the new way is GA.
